---
header-id: page-hierarchy
---

# Page Hierarchy

[TOC levels=1-4]

Using the Page Hierarchy, you create public and private pages and organize
those pages in whatever order or structure that you see fit.

## Creating a Page

New pages are created through either Site Administration or through the Page 
Tree View. Pages can be created as *Public Pages* which anyone can view, or 
*Private Pages* which can only be viewed by Site Members. 

### Viewing and Creating Pages through the Page Tree View

The Page Tree View provides quick access to the page navigation and gives an 
overview of the page hierarchy. You can use the search bar to quickly find a 
page by keyword, or click on a page in the hierarchy to navigate to it. You can 
also click the *View in Page Administration* link to go to the Pages 
Administration to manage the page further.

![Figure 1: Use the search bar to quickly find a page.](../../../../images/pages-tree-view-search.png)

To create a new page through the Page Tree View,

1.  Open the Product Menu and click the *Page Tree View* (![Page Tree View](../../../../images/icon-pages-tree-view.png)) icon next to the Site's name.

    ![Figure 2: Access the Page Tree View through the Product Menu.](../../../../images/pages-tree-view.png)

    By default, only the *Home* and hidden *Search* pages exist in the public hierarchy.

    ![Figure 3: In the default site, initially only the *Home* and the hidden *Search* pages exist in the Public Pages Hierarchy.](../../../../images/default-nav-pages-tree-view.png)

2.  Click the Actions Menu next to the Page Set selector and select *Add Page*. 
    You can also select the *Configure* option to configure the Page Set.

    ![Figure 4: You can add a page from the tree view.](../../../../images/pages-tree-view-add-page.png)

    You can also add a child page by opening the Actions Menu next to an 
    existing page and selecting *Add Page*.

    ![Figure 5: You can also add child pages from the tree view.](../../../../images/pages-tree-view-add-child-page.png)

Now that the page is created, it appears in the hierarchy, and you can move or
organize its position there. Expand nested pages in the hierarchy with the `+` 
icon next to the parent page. Likewise, you can collapse nested pages with the 
`-` icon next to the parent page. You can also collapse all pages at once by 
clicking the *Collapse All* to the right of the page set selector.

### Creating Pages through Site Administration

To create a new page through the Page Administration,

1.  Go to *Site Administration* for the Site you want to work on, then
    *Site Builder* &rarr; *Pages*.

    ![Figure 6: In the default site, initially only the *Home* and the hidden *Search* pages exist in the Public Pages Hierarchy.](../../../../images/default-nav-pages.png)

2.  Click *Add* (![Add Page](../../../../images/icon-add.png)) and select
    *Public Page*.

3.  Select *Widget Page*.

4.  Set the *Name* as *About Us*.

5.  Click *Save*.

![Figure 7: When you create a page, by default it is added to the site hierarchy.](../../../../images/page-hierarchy-menu.png)

Now that the page is created, it appears in the hierarchy, and you can move or
organize its position there.

## Organizing Pages

Drag and drop pages to reorder their position in the page hierarchy (and
subsequently the default navigation that users see), and to nest them as
subpages. This can be done through both the Pages Administration and the Page 
Tree View. The page at the top of the list is the *Home* page that users see
automatically when visiting your Site. 

1.  Click *Go to Site* to view the organization of the navigation menu. You can
    see the order of the pages matches the order of the pages in the hierarchy.

    ![Figure 8: You can see the order of pages in Site Administration vs. how they appear on the site.](../../../../images/navigation-practical1.png)

2.  Drag a page above an existing page to place it higher in the hierarchy, or 
    drag it on top of a page to nest it as a child page.

3.  Click *Go to Site* to see how this affects your menu. The example in the 
    figure below moves the *About Us* page above the *Welcome* page in the list, 
    making it the *Home* page.

    ![Figure 9: *About Us* is now the home page, and *Welcome* is second in the nav.](../../../../images/navigation-practical2.png)

    The example in this figure nest the *About Us* page underneath the *Welcome* 
    page. 

![Figure 10: *About Us* is now nested under *Welcome* and appear when you mouse-over *Welcome*.](../../../../images/navigation-practical3.png)

As you've just demonstrated, organizing pages in the default menu is simple, 
but very powerful.

## Public and Private Pages

As noted above, Private Pages work just like Public Pages, except they can be
viewed only by registered members of a Site. In the default configuration,
Public Pages are at the URL `[web-address]/`**web**`/[site-name]` while Private
Pages are at `[web-address]/`**group**`/[site-name]`. Other than the membership
distinctions, Public and Private Pages share the same behavior.

## Page Options

While managing the default menu, you can also access page options through the 
Site Administration. Clicking on the *Options* icon [Option](../../../../images/icon-options.png) 
accesses several configuration tools:

**View** goes to the selected page on the Site.

**Configure** goes to page configuration.

**Copy Page** creates a new page in the current Site that duplicates the
selected page.

**Permissions** opens the Permissions dialog.

**Orphan Widgets** clears data related to widgets that have been removed from
the page.
 
**Delete** deletes the page and all its data.

Creating and managing pages using the page hierarchy is simple but very 
powerful. If you need more navigation options, however, Navigation
Menus provide more flexibility.
